docs/backend-gcp.md, before:

# Configuring Cromwell on GCP

[Cromwell's documentation](https://cromwell.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials/PipelinesApi101/) on getting started with Google's genomics Pipelines API can be used to set up the resources needed to run the workflow.

## Configuring and running the workflow

### Filling out workflow inputs

Fill out any information missing in [the inputs file](https://github.com/PacificBiosciences/HiFi-human-WGS-WDL/blob/main/backends/gcp/singleton.gcp.inputs.json).

See [the inputs section of the singleton README](./singleton.md#inputs) for more information on the structure of the inputs.json file.

#### Determining available zones

To determine available zones in GCP, run the following; available zones within a region can be found in the first column of the output:

```bash
gcloud compute zones list | grep <region>
```

For example, the zones in region `us-central1` are `"us-central1-a us-central1-b us-central1c us-central1f"`.

## Running the workflow via Google's genomics Pipelines API

[Cromwell's documentation](https://cromwell.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials/PipelinesApi101/) on getting started with Google's genomics Pipelines API can be used as an example for how to run the workflow.

## Reference data hosted in GCP

GCP reference data is hosted in the `us-west1` region in the bucket `gs://pacbio-wdl`. This bucket is requester-pays, meaning that users will need to [provide a billing project in their Cromwell configuration](https://cromwell.readthedocs.io/en/stable/filesystems/GoogleCloudStorage/) in order to use files located in this bucket.

To avoid egress charges, Cromwell should be set up to spin up compute resources in the same region in which the data is located. If possible, add cohort data to the same region as the reference dataset, or consider mirroring this dataset in the region where your data is located. See [Google's information about data storage and egress charges for more information](https://cloud.google.com/storage/pricing).

Commit message:

Add the `cpuPlatform` runtime attribute to support the workflow in GCP zones that lack n1 nodes.
- add cpuPlatform to every task
- add cpuPlatform to backend_configuration
- add cpuPlatform input to family and singleton entrypoints
- document input in singleton and family docs
- document input in backend-gcp doc

docs/backend-gcp.md, after:

# Configuring Cromwell on GCP

[Cromwell's documentation](https://cromwell.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials/PipelinesApi101/) on getting started with Google's genomics Pipelines API can be used to set up the resources needed to run the workflow.

## Configuring and running the workflow

### Filling out workflow inputs

Fill out any information missing in [the inputs file](https://github.com/PacificBiosciences/HiFi-human-WGS-WDL/blob/main/backends/gcp/singleton.gcp.inputs.json).

See [the inputs section of the singleton README](./singleton.md#inputs) for more information on the structure of the inputs.json file.

#### Determining available zones

To determine available zones in GCP, run the following; available zones within a region can be found in the first column of the output:

```bash
gcloud compute zones list | grep <region>
```

For example, the zones in region `us-central1` are `"us-central1-a us-central1-b us-central1c us-central1f"`.

#### Setting the optional cpuPlatform parameter

Some GCP zones, for example `me-central1`, lack the n1 nodes used by many tasks in the workflow.  As a workaround, you can specify the minimum cpu platform to be used by the workflow to `"Intel Cascade Lake"`.  There is no need to specify the `cpuPlatform` input unless you encounter this issue.

## Running the workflow via Google's genomics Pipelines API

[Cromwell's documentation](https://cromwell.readthedocs.io/en/stable/tutorials/PipelinesApi101/) on getting started with Google's genomics Pipelines API can be used as an example for how to run the workflow.

## Reference data hosted in GCP

GCP reference data is hosted in the `us-west1` region in the bucket `gs://pacbio-wdl`. This bucket is requester-pays, meaning that users will need to [provide a billing project in their Cromwell configuration](https://cromwell.readthedocs.io/en/stable/filesystems/GoogleCloudStorage/) in order to use files located in this bucket.

To avoid egress charges, Cromwell should be set up to spin up compute resources in the same region in which the data is located. If possible, add cohort data to the same region as the reference dataset, or consider mirroring this dataset in the region where your data is located. See [Google's information about data storage and egress charges for more information](https://cloud.google.com/storage/pricing).
