docs/backend-hpc.md, before:

# Installing and configuring for HPC backends

Either `miniwdl` or `Cromwell` can be used to run workflows on the HPC.

## Installing and configuring `miniwdl`

### Requirements

- [`miniwdl`](https://github.com/chanzuckerberg/miniwdl) >= 1.9.0
- [`miniwdl-slurm`](https://github.com/miniwdl-ext/miniwdl-slurm)

### Configuration

An [example miniwdl.cfg file](https://github.com/PacificBiosciences/HiFi-human-WGS-WDL/blob/main/backends/hpc/miniwdl.cfg) is provided here. This should be placed at `~/.config/miniwdl.cfg` and edited to match your slurm configuration. This allows running workflows using a basic SLURM setup.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> In order to simplify workflow inputs, we make use of `map` files to specify the input data. This allows for a more concise input file, but requires changing a miniwdl configuration option to allow workflows to access files that are not expressly supplied with workflow inputs.  To enable this, add the following line to your `miniwdl.cfg` file:
>
> ```ini
> [file_io]
> allow_any_input = true
> ```
>
> This option is already included in the example miniwdl.cfg file described in this section.

## Installing and configuring `Cromwell`

Cromwell supports a number of different HPC backends; see [Cromwell's documentation](https://cromwell.readthedocs.io/en/stable/backends/HPC/) for more information on configuring each of the backends.  Cromwell can be used in a standalone "run" mode, or in "server" mode to allow for multiple users to submit workflows.  In the example below, we provide example commands for running Cromwell in "run" mode.

> [!NOTE]
> If running Cromwell on an HPC cluster using NFS for storage, you may encounter issues with NFS latency, which can cause Cromwell to fail to read files from the filesystem.  You can work around this by using `script-epilogue` to add a delay & sync to the end of each job.  This option is added to your backend provider config.
>
> ```bash
> script-epilogue = "sleep 60 && sync"
> ```

## Running the workflow

### Filling out workflow inputs

Fill out any information missing in [the inputs file](https://github.com/PacificBiosciences/HiFi-human-WGS-WDL/blob/main/backends/hpc/singleton.hpc.inputs.json). Once you have downloaded the reference data bundle, ensure that you have replaced the `<local_path_prefix>` in the input template file with the local path to the reference datasets on your HPC.

See [the inputs section of the singleton README](./singleton.md#inputs) for more information on the structure of the inputs.json file.

#### Running via miniwdl

```bash
miniwdl run workflows/singleton.wdl --input <inputs_json_file>
```

#### Running via Cromwell

```bash
cromwell run workflows/singleton.wdl --input <inputs_json_file>
```

## Reference data bundle

[<img src="https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.15750792.svg" alt="10.5281/zenodo.15750792">](https://zenodo.org/records/15750792)

Reference data is hosted on Zenodo at [10.5281/zenodo.15750792](https://zenodo.org/record/15750792). Download the reference data bundle and extract it to a location on your HPC, then update the input template file with the path to the reference data.

```bash
## download the reference data bundle
wget https://zenodo.org/record/15750792/files/hifi-wdl-resources-v3.0.0.tar

## extract the reference data bundle and rename as dataset
tar -xvf hifi-wdl-resources-v3.0.0.tar
```

Commit message:

feat: Script to populate miniwdl_singularity_cache with image_manifest.txt.

docs/backend-hpc.md, after:

# Installing and configuring for HPC backends

Either `miniwdl` or `Cromwell` can be used to run workflows on the HPC.

## Installing and configuring `miniwdl`

### Requirements

- [`miniwdl`](https://github.com/chanzuckerberg/miniwdl) >= 1.9.0
- [`miniwdl-slurm`](https://github.com/miniwdl-ext/miniwdl-slurm)

### Configuration

An [example miniwdl.cfg file](https://github.com/PacificBiosciences/HiFi-human-WGS-WDL/blob/main/backends/hpc/miniwdl.cfg) is provided here. This should be placed at `~/.config/miniwdl.cfg` and edited to match your slurm configuration. This allows running workflows using a basic SLURM setup.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> In order to simplify workflow inputs, we make use of `map` files to specify the input data. This allows for a more concise input file, but requires changing a miniwdl configuration option to allow workflows to access files that are not expressly supplied with workflow inputs.  To enable this, add the following line to your `miniwdl.cfg` file:
>
> ```ini
> [file_io]
> allow_any_input = true
> ```
>
> This option is already included in the example miniwdl.cfg file described in this section.

## Installing and configuring `Cromwell`

Cromwell supports a number of different HPC backends; see [Cromwell's documentation](https://cromwell.readthedocs.io/en/stable/backends/HPC/) for more information on configuring each of the backends.  Cromwell can be used in a standalone "run" mode, or in "server" mode to allow for multiple users to submit workflows.  In the example below, we provide example commands for running Cromwell in "run" mode.

> [!NOTE]
> If running Cromwell on an HPC cluster using NFS for storage, you may encounter issues with NFS latency, which can cause Cromwell to fail to read files from the filesystem.  You can work around this by using `script-epilogue` to add a delay & sync to the end of each job.  This option is added to your backend provider config.
>
> ```bash
> script-epilogue = "sleep 60 && sync"
> ```

## Running the workflow

### Filling out workflow inputs

Fill out any information missing in [the inputs file](https://github.com/PacificBiosciences/HiFi-human-WGS-WDL/blob/main/backends/hpc/singleton.hpc.inputs.json). Once you have downloaded the reference data bundle, ensure that you have replaced the `<local_path_prefix>` in the input template file with the local path to the reference datasets on your HPC.

See [the inputs section of the singleton README](./singleton.md#inputs) for more information on the structure of the inputs.json file.

#### Running via miniwdl

```bash
miniwdl run workflows/singleton.wdl --input <inputs_json_file>
```

If your compute nodes cannot contact the internet, you can use the script at [`./scripts/populate_miniwdl_singularity_cache.sh`](../scripts/populate_miniwdl_singularity_cache.sh) with the image manifest at [`./image_manifest.txt`](../image_manifest.txt) to populate the miniwdl singularity cache with the required images from a login node with internet access.

#### Running via Cromwell

```bash
cromwell run workflows/singleton.wdl --input <inputs_json_file>
```

## Reference data bundle

[<img src="https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.15750792.svg" alt="10.5281/zenodo.15750792">](https://zenodo.org/records/15750792)

Reference data is hosted on Zenodo at [10.5281/zenodo.15750792](https://zenodo.org/record/15750792). Download the reference data bundle and extract it to a location on your HPC, then update the input template file with the path to the reference data.

```bash
## download the reference data bundle
wget https://zenodo.org/record/15750792/files/hifi-wdl-resources-v3.0.0.tar

## extract the reference data bundle and rename as dataset
tar -xvf hifi-wdl-resources-v3.0.0.tar
```
